---
layout: post
title: Reflection of FS 102: Analyzing the Process of Web Writing
---
*The beneﬁts and drawbacks associated with using software technology to support eﬀective communication*

Utilizing software technology like GitHub to not only construct written material but also communicate such ideas exceeded my expectations. Initially, as a first time user of GitHub and Markdown coding, I did not comprehend the numerous benefits that came along with developing my own website. The user-friendly software allowed me to quickly learn and adapt to its functionality in order to create and continually develop my website. GitHub is not only instructional through its accessible templates and code but also through its widely collaborative platform. Since nearly all code is posted publically, users can easily raise issues and provide constructive criticism for other user's code. The only setback I encountered throughout a semester of trial-and-error and exploration was the lack of an autosave feature. At times when the internet signal would cut out, I lost all progress while editing on its online platform. However, such issue can easily diminish if an outside software, such as Atom, is used to edit the code. Despite the minor drawback, GitHub positively adds to the infinitely-increasing impact of technology on today's society. With a mobile-ready website already running, I aspire to continue using GitHub throughout the rest of my collegiate career.

*The advantages and disadvantages of using GitHub and Reveal.js to prepare and deliver mobile-ready presentations.*

Evaluating the construction of presentations through GitHub, I now drastically prefer using its software over Microsoft or Google. Despite being a first time user of GitHub, I quickly learned to navigate the Reveal.js template and customize its layout to fit my vision. The Reveal.js template eased my fear of creating a presentation from scratch with its educational tutorial and organized, navigable code. Although using GitHub for presentations provided a stronger sense of creativity and individuality, not using a limiting software such as Google Presentations resulted in an increased fear of error and decrease in confidence while presenting. There were moments during my FS 102 presentations that caused unintended distraction from my content when I noticed a minor flaw in its code as I was speaking. However, such drawbacks will diminish over time as I improve and become more efficient in utilizing GitHub's software. Overall, GitHub and the Reveal.js template enhances both the preparation and deliverance of my presentations, and I anticipate using GitHub for future assignments. 


